Collect evidence of Internet censorship. Measure the speed and performance of your network. Play an active role in increasing transparency of information controls around the world.
By running ooniprobe, you will examine the blocking of websites, your network's speed and performance, and whether systems that could be responsible for censorship and surveillance are in your network.

These tests have been developed by the Open Observatory of Network Interference (OONI), a free software project (under The Tor Project) that aims to uncover Internet censorship around the world.
Since 2012, OONI has collected millions of network measurements across more than 190 countries, shedding light on multiple cases of network interference. By running ooniprobe, you will help increase transparency of Internet censorship around the world.

▶ Collecting evidence of Internet censorship
OONI's Web Connectivity test is designed to examine whether access to sites is blocked through DNS tampering, TCP/IP blocking, or by a transparent HTTP proxy. By running this test, you will collect data that can serve as evidence of Internet censorship, and you will be provided with circumvention tips.

▶ Detecting systems responsible for censorship and surveillance
OONI's HTTP Invalid Request Line test is designed to uncover the presence of systems that could be responsible for censorship and surveillance.

▶ Measuring the speed and performance of your network
OONI's implementation of the Network Diagnostic Test (NDT) measures the speed of your network by connecting to M-Lab servers near you and by collecting low level TCP/IP information that can help characterize the speed and performance of your network.

▶ Open data
OONI publishes all network measurement data that it collects because open data allows third parties to conduct independent studies, verify OONI findings and/or to answer other research questions. Such data also helps increase transparency of Internet censorship around the world. All data is published on OONI Explorer: https://explorer.ooni.torproject.org/

▶ Free software
All OONI tests, as well as its NDT implementation, are based on free and open source software. You can find the source code through the following link: https://github.com/thetorproject/ooniprobe-ios


Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/OpenObservatory


Please note: Running ooniprobe might be against the terms of service of your ISP or legally questionable in your country. By running ooniprobe you will connect to web services which may be banned, and use web censorship circumvention methods such as Tor. The OONI project will publish data submitted by probes, possibly including your IP address or other identifying information. In addition, your use of ooniprobe will be clear to anyone who has access to your computer, and to anyone who can monitor your Internet connection (such as your employer, ISP or government).
